that's what makes SEO beautiful see not
everyone has money right and I got into
SEO because I can compete with the big
guys when it comes to ads sure what's as
beautiful about it is when you don't
have a ton of money yeah sure if you
spend more you'll get results a little
bit quicker and a longer and of course
you'll get way more traffic if you spend
more money but this is what allows the
little guy to compete with the big guys
so is it basically the great equalizer
SEO
all right Neil Patel so Neil you are the
marketers Market are you truly an expert
in your field I have one important
question to ask you and I'm sure every
entrepreneur every online and offline
marketer that's listening to this or
just business owner
what do we do to maximize Q4 sales that
I know from my own business from uh it's
like maybe the week before a few days
before Thanksgiving straight through the
end of the year and a few days after I
just just did massive amounts of
business and I kicked myself in the ass
afterwards said God I should have
advertised more prepared more what is
the best way for someone in you know my
position anyone listening to set
themselves up now for a massive
end-of-year Bonanza so there's a few
things that are happening right now one
ad costs are going to go through the
roof in Q4 now that doesn't mean you
shouldn't do ads but what you should do
is add an upsell and add in a downsell
on your checkout it's literally the
easiest things to do if you're gonna do
a third thing at a checkout bomb because
that'll increase your average order
value and then from there spend more
money on ads the second thing I would do
is I would go and go find all the
complimentary people in your space so
you do sales related stuff right
there's probably other people who teach
sales but not necessarily the same sales
stuff that you teach and of course not
as good there you go but different angle
of sales right there's many different
things you can fine tune in sales such
as how to fine-tune your processes or
software sales skills and the list can
go on and on you can partner with some
of those people and have them promote
you and then you promote them we're
seeing that as huge wins like think of
it this way if you can't add an upsell
or downseller check because you don't
have one go find someone else in your
space that you respect have them uh take
their product and do an upsell with them
or downsell with them right and vice
versa
makes sense okay I like that this guy
definitely got some potential there okay
keep going
then the other thing I would do is I
would just start creating mass
quantities of content okay so do keyword
research and here's what I mean by this
everyone always ends up spending money
on ads that's why Google and Facebook
are so huge
that's a given but Microsoft ended up
releasing a report where that broke down
what marketing skill sets people should
focus their time and energy on if they
want to be effective marketers in the
future the number one tactic was SEO one
of the least invested aspects in
marketing is SEO so you can do keyword
research there's tons of free tools out
there pick any one you want and type in
keywords related to your space
when you're typing keywords related to
your space you'll see a laundry list of
keywords that are also relevant that you
can just go and start creating content
around and if you just write tons and
tons of blog content that's really good
about those topics okay not mediocre but
just really really good you're not going
to get that much traffic for end of Q4
you're not going to get that much
traffic even middle of next year but by
the end of next year you're going to
start seeing that content generate a lot
of traffic from there drive those people
into a webinar and then from a webinar
pitch whatever products Services you're
offering to offer even you can do it for
e-commerce or you can just link within
your blog on you to the product you're
selling you let's say if it's e-commerce
so let's slow down for a second here
because that's an interesting uh
perspective I think that most people
nowadays overlook this whole idea of
organic traffic SEO right so I think for
me I've been fortunate because I have a
brand so I get a lot of organic traffic
where people will either maybe uh you
know see something about me or read or
watch the movie and then come but what
about the person that doesn't have that
how do you the the real methodology for
for getting yourself and you talk about
getting ranked on the first page of
Google is that really what you what
you're talking about here yep okay right
so so what is it really about
the fact that most people spend their
days making video content but video
content isn't what gets you ranked High
because it's not block they can't they
can't crawl it sometimes you're saying
turn it into a Blog where people the
computers can actually read it is that
what you're saying that's correct now
they are getting better at crawling
video content but it doesn't rank that
well like anytime you do a Google search
almost all the results are text based
and if you don't have a brand see when I
started off I didn't have a brand and my
Brand's nowhere near the size of yours
I get right now 10 million visits to my
website each month without ads
and then what happened was all those
visitors through SEO ended up helping to
build my brand so now on any given month
I get around 180 000 visits just from
Google of people typing in my name Neil
Patel and clicking on over to my website
but at first started off where I was
getting zero people looking for my name
I was creating all this content and when
you're creating all this content
eventually you start getting traffic and
then people start subscribing and
eventually builds your brand
how long is the lag time is a really
important question so since you brought
up the idea okay so if you do this and
you start writing blogs you're not going
to impact it tomorrow you're not gonna
make money to Christmas time and you
probably don't even see any results
during the beginning and middle of next
year but by the time it comes around to
next Christmas you're gonna be golden so
is the problem that you think most
people have with SEO is that they start
doing it they don't see the near-term
payoff so they say ah it's not working
and they quit versus realizing that it's
more of a long-term investment in your
brand in terms of you know building up
that name recognition and also just
getting yourself ranked up is it a
matter of time just wearing down the
algorithm is that what it's about it is
just time and that's where most
businesses make mistakes they know it's
a long term thing but they'll do it for
six months look at how much money they
spent and then they just quit but if
they just want for that extra six months
at the end of a year you start seeing
some really or decent results usually
you can see good results but at the end
of two three years that's when it really
kicks in and it's just a Snowball Effect
and it can exponentially grow especially
when you're starting off
but businesses usually aren't willing to
put in the time and energy into it and
the investment but when you look at the
grand scheme of things is so much
cheaper than ads much more sustainable
much more profitable in the long run so
oh I would think so for sure right so so
what's the um
so what's the type of things do you want
to be so you mentioned right look
looking up the keywords and writing
about the keywords so where would you
put those articles those do put those on
your website and Link in a blog in a
blog section where would you publish
those would you try to get linked to
other other magazines and other uh
online uh you know periodicals how do
you get your stuff out there this or it
doesn't matter as long as it's just out
there and searchable they'll eventually
start picking it up so I'll give you
four steps okay first is I have a free
tool called ubersuggest you can go find
the keywords and then from there you can
end up creating content publish it on
yourdomain.com
blog slash whatever it is so that way
all your blog contents in the a Blog
folder all right that's the first step
the second step is taking those articles
and then pushing them out on the Social
Web sharing them on Facebook Twitter you
know Pinterest uh Instagram you can't do
much tell people to swipe up Instagram
democrite for promote content linkedin's
another place
so that'll help starting to get the
traffic Rolling In the third thing I
want you to do is and you mentioned this
is links see the way internet works or
Google works is it's like a voting
system in the presidential election the
candidate who's most likely going to win
is the one with the most votes I know
it's on an electoral basis in the United
States but in general you know generally
speaking the person with the most votes
usually wins Google works the same way
the person with the most votes ranks at
the top but a vote on Google isn't
someone saying hey I vote for the site
it's me saying hey I linked to this
website and a link being a vote because
you can't talk to the search engine but
they can understand what you're saying
by Links
so if your website has more links than
someone else
and they're more relevant the better off
you're going to be just like President
Barack Obama telling you to vote for a
candidate whether it's Trump or Biden is
going to have more weight than me Neil
Patel saying vote for a candidate
because he's a politician on the flip
side if I talk about marketing or
entrepreneurship still probably don't
have as much weight as President Obama
but I have quite a bit of weight in that
category because that's what I'm known
as expert just like with you in business
and sales right
so when you're writing the content and
this is the third step when you're
writing the content usually link out to
other websites to sort your or cite your
sources break down some stats some data
case studies whatever it may be when you
naturally link to people email them let
them know that you link to them ask them
to share your content and if they like
it even link back some of them will some
of them won't and don't worry if they
link back or not but doing that one
little thing will get you more social
love and it'll also get you ranked
higher on the internet because some of
those people will start linking back to
you interesting you keep going and then
the fourth one is you need to fix your
code so if your code like you mentioned
it's easier for them to crawl text-based
content over videos if your code isn't
friendly for Google you're not going to
do well so we'll go back to ubersuggest
it's free there's a site audit report
and there's navigation
and just your url put it in and it'll
break down all the errors that are found
and what you need to fix to rank higher
in Google and it breaks them down step
by step on how to fix them for free
what's it called how do you spell that
Uber oh Uber suggests uh-huh
s-u-g-g-e-s-t sorry the name isn't the
best but when I bought the company that
was the name and it's too much work to
change it got it okay so so essentially
making your website more friendly for
Google's uh uh engine to crawl and and
ascertain what's relevant and what's not
exactly
okay and if you do those four things
you're saying it's not when would you
start the first notice a change how long
out six months a year three when you
first thought to get glimmers of it
within three months you'll start
noticing something six months it starts
kicking in a little within a year you
really start seeing the results within
three years you're off into the races
got it and
are there ways
that an entrepreneur with somewhat of a
bankroll not a big one but let's say
someone's willing to invest some amount
of capital that can hasten that process
through capital investment is there ways
to no I wouldn't say just you know cheat
the system but to expedite things to tip
it in your favor obviously I guess you
could write more articles create more
blogs but are there other things that
you can do that are legitimate not like
you know not cheating the system but
sort of really gaming it in a positive
way to get yourself there quicker
it comes down to what you said you would
have to either write more content build
more links get more social shares but
even then it still takes the same time
frame you'll get more traffic within
that time frame but the first year you
won't get the results you're looking for
and that's what makes SEO beautiful see
not everyone has money right and I got
into SEO because I can compete with the
big guys when it comes to ads sure
what's as beautiful about it is when you
don't have a ton of money yeah sure if
you spend more you'll get results a
little bit quicker in a longer and of
course you'll get way more traffic if
you spend more money but this is what
allows a little guy to compete with the
big guys so is it basically the great
equalizer SEO
I genuinely believe it is that along
with social media because if you look at
a lot of the people who are popping on
social media yeah you got your
celebrities but it's not a lot of big
companies and you have a lot of micro
influencers who are making a killing and
just
you know having a big fall like I was
asking one of my teammates earlier today
his name was Fabian and fabians is like
you know I was talking to him and we
were talking about social and he's just
like give me a quote for social so I
gave him one or he said give me a
question so I gave them would you rather
have a million followers or 10 million
followers or a million dollars and he's
like I'd rather have a million dollars
in 10 million followers and I'm like the
followers are real you sure he's just
like yeah I'd rather have a million
dollars because you can invest that a
million dollars I'm like you have 10
million followers you know how much
money you can make from that time and
time and time again
I saw that same
um question pose but with a billion
dollars and a billion follows and I said
I'll take the billion dollars you know
why because I could just put the billion
dollars in a bat and kind of live off
the interest for the rent it's game over
with a billion so I think it it that
that system doesn't work with a billion
I was like that's a really stupid
question I asked because I understand
what they're trying to say but I'll
still take the billion every [__] day
of the week what would you take a
billion dollars or a billion followers
what would you say take a billion
dollars
yeah I would be like you know what I
don't need to work anymore let's call it
a day but a million dollars and 10
million I'll take 10 million followers
every day of the week and twice on
Tuesdays you know that's right and
that's why I pose it not a million
followers with the million dollars it
was a million followers depending on the
industry it could be hard to modest but
the moment you have 10 you're big enough
as a brand oh sure yeah yeah yeah
absolutely so let's switch gears for a
second to um
the typical strategies that
your run-of-the-mill expert marketer
uses is I'm an expert in Facebook like
that's the big one I'm a Facebook
advertising and facebook slash Instagram
and they know a little bit about Google
sometimes and even less so about YouTube
but what about these other platforms now
like you have Tick Tock and Snapchat and
these other places that you can actually
advertise and this thing I keep calling
seeing like tabool or the uh display ads
what about all these other sources of
traffic do you do you think that
um it makes sense nowadays this thought
putting some of your budget towards
things like Tick Tock Snapchat and are
there certain things that convert well
on those platforms and things that don't
convert well what do you think about
that sure so if you have an app like a
product most of platforms convert really
well for that e-commerce works really
well in Tick Tock and Snapchat Pinterest
uh taboola and outbrain work really well
for lead generation courses
um Reddit works well for for a lot of
different Industries as well other than
e-commerce so when you think about these
platforms and they work for B2B and b2c
and there's different platforms out
there Google and Facebook of course are
the best because they drive you the most
value and they're the easiest to scale
and when I talk about Google I also
include YouTube within Google right just
like Instagrams on my Facebook
but there's an issue they're expensive
taboo and outbreak may not scale as well
but they're fractions of the cost you
can literally spend sometimes a fifth a
six sometimes a tenth and get great
conversions can you ramp it up to 100
Grand a month on some of these platforms
no but who cares if you can spend two
three five ten thousand dollars a month
and you're getting a solid Roi because
if you do that on six seven of these
platforms it adds up and then go tackle
the big players later on but I think
they're actually better opportunities
especially if you're starting off or if
you're a small business so what would
you of those alternative like uh taboo
what are the top three or four that you
think are the best ones that people
should should experiment with number two
would be snap number three would be Tick
Tock number four would be Pinterest
number five and this is from B2B it's
expensive but it converts well which
would be LinkedIn
LinkedIn
okay and
um do you in terms of uh do you think
it's in that you mentioned that like so
with Tick Tock and it's more about econ
it's good for e-commerce there's certain
certain offerings that are better on
certain platforms you're recommended
like for instance B2B is more about
LinkedIn what would you say in terms of
the others is it equally good B to B B
to C or any industry specific um
recommendations
uh Snapchat and Tick Tock b2c Pinterest
b2c uh taboola outbrain they work for
both b2c and B2B all taboo albring works
for pretty much any industry
huh what do you think it is that
separates
a great marketer from an average
marketer in the world of like the whole
Facebook Instagram what we're talking
about here I don't mean at your level
I'm talking about the average person you
see right now that's sort of like you
know there's a million and one agencies
right you probably laugh when you hear
that word right uh because they just
seen a lot of one-man shops but you know
I respect the entrepreneurial effort
what do you think it is that separates
the good ones from the bad ones is it
some of them the ones that are more uh
into the testing side of things is it
about the creatives they create what do
you think it really is that makes a good
a good marketer or a good marketing
agency I think it's creativity so not
necessarily the creatives that they're
creating but the creativity like the
ideas and the concepts that they're
coming up with because right now
everything is saturated we all have to
go Omni Channel leverage all the
channels out there to do well
so your only way to win is thinking
outside the box for example
when I talk about SEO everyone's going
to be creating content doing Q research
doesn't mean you shouldn't do it no huge
Roi but if you want to really do well
you got to think outside the box and
here's the example of that
in my industry if I wanted a bid on my
traffic it would cost me somewhere
around one and a half to two million
dollars a month just on ads just for
Google
okay that's a lot of money that would be
burning each month
I can't afford that that's a lot of cash
it would eat away at my margins my
business wouldn't be profitable
on the flip side I did things away like
create a free tool and just give it away
right and I was just like huh if I take
what people are charging for give it
away I can get a lot of people just like
those assessment tests when you're
talking about sales everyone knows about
those assessment tests if Hey would this
be a good salesperson to hire creating
those for free on your
on your website and releasing them out
there can get a lot of links it can get
a lot of traffic a lot of rankings and
then that way when you create the
content you're already gonna have more
eyeballs more social followings and
you're going to do well that's the
example of creativity or like upsells
down cells or creating better funnels
all examples of creativity and I think
that's what it takes to do really well
in marketing these days